CPT-LoRA-Qwen-2.5-Coder-Instruct-32B/README.md, before:

# Hyperswitch CPT Training - Qwen2.5-Coder-32B

Clean, direct implementation using Transformers + TRL + PEFT + DeepSpeed.

## Overview

- **Model**: Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
- **Method**: LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation, r=64, alpha=128)
- **Hardware**: 2x H200 GPUs
- **Dataset**: Hyperswitch Rust codebase (~16,731 samples)
- **Training**: Causal Language Modeling (next-token prediction)

## Quick Setup After Cloning

### 1. Clone This Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd CPT
```

### 2. Setup Python Environment
```bash
# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac

# Install dependencies
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Clone Hyperswitch Repository
```bash
# Clone Hyperswitch codebase (required for dataset generation)
git clone https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch.git
cd hyperswitch
git checkout main  # or specific commit
cd ..
```

### 4. Prepare Dataset
```bash
# Generate training dataset from Hyperswitch code
python3 prepare_dataset.py

# This creates dataset/all_data.jsonl (~16,731 samples)
```

### 5. Start Training
```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x train_direct.sh

# Start training
./train_direct.sh
```

### 6. Monitor Training (Optional)
```bash
# In a separate terminal - TensorBoard
cd /workspace/RL_Code/CPT
source .venv/bin/activate
nohup tensorboard --logdir outputs --port 6008 --bind_all --reload_interval 5 > tensorboard.log 2>&1 &

# Access at http://localhost:6008

# Or monitor console logs
tail -f train_log.txt

# Or watch GPU usage
watch -n 1 nvidia-smi
```

## Configuration

### Model Configuration (`config.yaml`)
- Model: `Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct`
- Repository: Path to Hyperswitch codebase
- Dataset: Output directory and token limits
- Training: Epochs, batch sizes, learning rate

### Training Hyperparameters
- **LoRA**: r=64, alpha=128, dropout=0.05
- **Batch size**: 2 micro × 8 grad_accum × 2 GPUs = 32 effective
- **Learning rate**: 5e-5 with cosine schedule, warmup=0.03
- **Epochs**: 5
- **Context length**: 8,192 tokens
- **Sample packing**: Disabled
- **Optimizer**: AdamW with weight_decay=0.1

### DeepSpeed Configuration (`deepspeed_configs/zero2.json`)
- ZeRO stage 2 (optimizer state sharding)
- BF16 precision
- No CPU offloading
- Flash Attention 2 enabled

## File Structure

```
CPT/
├── config.yaml                  # Main configuration
├── train_direct.py              # Training script (Transformers + TRL + PEFT)
├── train_direct.sh              # Training launcher with monitoring
├── prepare_dataset.py           # Dataset preparation from Hyperswitch
├── inference.py                 # Model comparison tool
├── requirements.txt             # Python dependencies
├── deepspeed_configs/           # DeepSpeed configurations
│   └── zero2.json
├── dataset/                     # Training data (generated, ~36MB)
│   ├── all_data.jsonl          # 16,731 combined samples
│   └── dataset_stats.json      # Statistics
├── hyperswitch/                 # Cloned repo (not pushed to git)
└── outputs/                     # Training outputs (not pushed to git)
    └── hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/
        ├── logs/               # TensorBoard logs
        ├── checkpoint-*/       # Saved checkpoints
        └── final_model/        # Final trained model
```

## What Gets Pushed to GitHub

**Essential files (~144KB total):**
- ✅ `config.yaml`, `requirements.txt`
- ✅ `prepare_dataset.py`, `train_direct.py`, `train_direct.sh`
- ✅ `inference.py`
- ✅ `deepspeed_configs/`
- ✅ `README.md`

**NOT pushed (auto-generated or too large):**
- ❌ `.venv/` (8.4GB) - Recreate with pip
- ❌ `outputs/` (17GB) - Training results
- ❌ `.cache/` (71GB) - HuggingFace cache
- ❌ `hyperswitch/` (325MB) - Clone separately
- ❌ `dataset/` (36MB) - Regenerate with script
- ❌ `__pycache__/`, `*.log` - Runtime artifacts

## Training Details

### Dataset Composition (16,731 total samples)
- **File-level**: 2,120 samples (complete files or chunks)
- **Granular**: 14,611 samples
  - Functions: 4,121 (public function signatures)
  - Structs: 5,710 (public struct definitions)
  - Traits: 223 (trait definitions)
  - Impls: 4,296 (implementation blocks)
  - Modules: 261 (module structure)

### Memory Usage (per GPU)
- Model: ~62GB (32B params in BF16)
- LoRA adapters: ~1.2GB (r=64)
- Optimizer: ~31GB (ZeRO-2 split)
- Activations: ~24GB (with gradient checkpointing)
- **Total: ~78GB / 141GB available per H200**

### Expected Training Time
- Total steps: 2,355 (5 epochs)
- ~5-6 seconds per step
- **Total: ~3.5-4 hours** on 2x H200

### Training Results (Example Run)
- **Initial loss**: 1.63 → **Final loss**: 0.48 (71% reduction)
- **Initial perplexity**: 5.12 → **Final perplexity**: 1.59
- **Token accuracy**: 61% → 89%
- **Eval loss**: 0.46 (no overfitting)

### Checkpoints
- Saved every 50 steps
- ~1.2GB per checkpoint (LoRA adapters only)
- Format: SafeTensors
- Final model includes training metadata

## What is CPT?

**Continued Pre-Training (CPT)** adapts a pre-trained model to a specific code domain by continuing the causal language modeling (next-token prediction) on domain-specific code.

### How It Works
The model learns by predicting the next token given previous tokens:
```rust
pub fn create_payment(        ← Model sees this
    request: PaymentRequest   ← Predicts this
) -> Result<Payment, Error> { ← Then this
```

### What The Model Learns
Through next-token prediction, the model learns:
1. **Syntax & Grammar** - Rust language rules
2. **Code Patterns** - `.await?`, error handling chains
3. **API Knowledge** - Function signatures, parameter types
4. **Naming Conventions** - Variable/function naming patterns
5. **Architecture** - Module structure, imports
6. **Domain Logic** - Payment processing concepts
7. **Error Handling** - Hyperswitch error patterns
8. **Documentation** - Doc comment styles

### Why Use This Model?
We use **Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct** because:
- Excellent code understanding baseline
- Already optimized for code tasks
- Strong performance on code benchmarks
- Good balance of size vs capability

## Technology Stack

- **Transformers**: Model loading and tokenization
- **TRL (Transformer Reinforcement Learning)**: SFTTrainer with sample packing
- **PEFT**: LoRA implementation
- **DeepSpeed**: Multi-GPU training with ZeRO-2
- **Flash Attention 2**: Memory-efficient attention

## After Training

### Run Inference Comparison
```bash
python3 inference.py

# Compare base model vs fine-tuned on various prompts
# - Code explanations
# - Function completion
# - Module declarations
```

### Test the Fine-tuned Model
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer
from peft import PeftModel
import torch

# Load base model
base_model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct",
    dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device_map="auto"
)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct")

# Load LoRA adapter
model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(
    base_model, 
    "outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/final_model"
)

# Generate code
prompt = "// Hyperswitch payment processing\npub fn validate_payment_method"
inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=200, temperature=0.2)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0]))
```

### Merge Adapter (Optional)
```python
from peft import PeftModel

# Load and merge
model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(
    base_model, 
    "outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/final_model"
)
merged_model = model.merge_and_unload()

# Save merged model
merged_model.save_pretrained("hyperswitch-qwen-32b-merged")
tokenizer.save_pretrained("hyperswitch-qwen-32b-merged")
```

## Evaluation Results

### Strengths (Fine-tuned Model)
✅ **Code Explanation** - Excellent at explaining Hyperswitch code
✅ **Domain Knowledge** - Understands payment processing concepts
✅ **Architecture** - Knows module structure and organization
✅ **Faster** - More concise responses than base model
✅ **Context Aware** - Recognizes Hyperswitch patterns

### Recommended Use Cases
- ✅ Code reviews and explanations
- ✅ Documentation generation
- ✅ Understanding existing code
- ✅ Architectural discussions
- ✅ Onboarding new developers

### Optimal Settings
- **Temperature**: 0.2-0.3 for code tasks
- **Temperature**: 0.5-0.7 for explanations
- **Max tokens**: 512-1024 for most tasks

## Troubleshooting

### CUDA Out of Memory
**Error**: `torch.cuda.OutOfMemoryError`

**Solutions**:
1. Reduce batch size in script:
   ```python
   per_device_train_batch_size=1
   gradient_accumulation_steps=4
   ```
2. Enable gradient checkpointing (already enabled)
3. Use smaller LoRA rank (r=32 or r=16)
4. Reduce max sequence length

### Checkpoints Not Found
**Error**: Cannot find checkpoint directory

**Solutions**:
1. Check `outputs/` directory exists:
   ```bash
   ls -lh outputs/
   ```
2. Verify training completed:
   ```bash
   tail logs/train_*.log
   ```
3. Confirm checkpoint naming pattern:
   ```bash
   find outputs/ -name "checkpoint-*"
   ```

### TensorBoard Not Showing Metrics
**Error**: Empty dashboard or no data

**Solutions**:
1. Check correct log directory:
   ```bash
   tensorboard --logdir=outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_* --port 6008
   ```
2. Verify training is writing logs:
   ```bash
   ls -lh outputs/*/runs/
   ```
3. Restart TensorBoard after training starts

### Model Loading Errors
**Error**: Cannot load LoRA weights or base model

**Solutions**:
1. Verify HuggingFace token:
   ```bash
   huggingface-cli whoami
   ```
2. Check adapter config exists:
   ```bash
   cat outputs/*/final_model/adapter_config.json
   ```
3. Use correct model path (Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct)
4. Ensure proper dtype: `torch.bfloat16`

### Slow Inference
**Issue**: Generation takes too long

**Solutions**:
1. Use Flash Attention 2 (already enabled)
2. Reduce max_new_tokens
3. Use merged model instead of adapter
4. Enable 8-bit quantization for inference:
   ```python
   model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
       "Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct",
       load_in_8bit=True,
       device_map="auto"
   )
   ```

### Dataset Errors
**Error**: Cannot find `all_data.jsonl`

**Solutions**:
1. Run prepare_dataset.py:
   ```bash
   python3 prepare_dataset.py
   ```
2. Check data/ directory:
   ```bash
   ls -lh data/
   ```
3. Verify dataset format (each line is JSON)

### Multi-GPU Issues
**Error**: Model not distributed properly

**Solutions**:
1. Check GPU availability:
   ```bash
   nvidia-smi
   ```
2. Verify CUDA visible devices:
   ```bash
   echo $CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES
   ```
3. Use device_map="auto" in model loading
4. Check DDP settings if using distributed training

---

## Additional Resources

- **Qwen2.5-Coder**: [HuggingFace Model Card](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct)
- **LoRA Paper**: [Low-Rank Adaptation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685)
- **TRL Documentation**: [Transformer Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/)
- **Hyperswitch**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch)

---

*Last Updated: October 2024*

## References

- [Transformers Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers)
- [TRL Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl)
- [PEFT Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft)
- [DeepSpeed Documentation](https://www.deepspeed.ai/)

Commit message:

Add TPU (XLA) training support
- Detect TPU availability and disable GPU-specific features
- Disable Flash Attention and DeepSpeed on TPU
- Add train_tpu.sh launcher script with dependency checks
- Configure TrainingArguments for TPU (tpu_num_cores=8, bf16)
- Update documentation with TPU setup instructions

CPT-LoRA-Qwen-2.5-Coder-Instruct-32B/README.md, after:

# Hyperswitch CPT Training - Qwen2.5-Coder-32B

Clean, direct implementation using Transformers + TRL + PEFT + DeepSpeed.

## Overview

- **Model**: Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
- **Method**: LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation, r=64, alpha=128)
- **Hardware**: 2x H200 GPUs
- **Dataset**: Hyperswitch Rust codebase (~16,731 samples)
- **Training**: Causal Language Modeling (next-token prediction)

## Quick Setup After Cloning

### 1. Clone This Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd CPT
```

### 2. Setup Python Environment
```bash
# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac

# Install dependencies
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Clone Hyperswitch Repository
```bash
# Clone Hyperswitch codebase (required for dataset generation)
git clone https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch.git
cd hyperswitch
git checkout main  # or specific commit
cd ..
```

### 4. Prepare Dataset
```bash
# Generate training dataset from Hyperswitch code
python3 prepare_dataset.py

# This creates dataset/all_data.jsonl (~16,731 samples)
```

### 5. Start Training
```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x train_direct.sh

# Start training
./train_direct.sh
```

### TPU (XLA) Training
- Environment: Cloud TPU VM or TPU-backed VM with PyTorch/XLA installed.
- Install matching versions: `pip install torch==2.5.1 torchvision==0.20.1 && pip install torch-xla[tpu]==2.5.1`
- FlashAttention/DeepSpeed are disabled automatically on TPU.
```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x train_tpu.sh

# Launch across 8 TPU cores
./train_tpu.sh
```
Notes:
- The trainer auto-detects TPU and sets `tpu_num_cores=8`, disables `deepspeed`, and avoids CUDA-only features.
- Use BF16 on TPU (`bf16: true` in config). `fp16` is ignored on TPU.

### 6. Monitor Training (Optional)
```bash
# In a separate terminal - TensorBoard
cd /workspace/RL_Code/CPT
source .venv/bin/activate
nohup tensorboard --logdir outputs --port 6008 --bind_all --reload_interval 5 > tensorboard.log 2>&1 &

# Access at http://localhost:6008

# Or monitor console logs
tail -f train_log.txt

# Or watch GPU usage
watch -n 1 nvidia-smi
```

## Configuration

### Model Configuration (`config.yaml`)
- Model: `Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct`
- Repository: Path to Hyperswitch codebase
- Dataset: Output directory and token limits
- Training: Epochs, batch sizes, learning rate

### Training Hyperparameters
- **LoRA**: r=64, alpha=128, dropout=0.05
- **Batch size**: 2 micro × 8 grad_accum × 2 GPUs = 32 effective
- **Learning rate**: 5e-5 with cosine schedule, warmup=0.03
- **Epochs**: 5
- **Context length**: 8,192 tokens
- **Sample packing**: Disabled
- **Optimizer**: AdamW with weight_decay=0.1

### DeepSpeed Configuration (`deepspeed_configs/zero2.json`)
- ZeRO stage 2 (optimizer state sharding)
- BF16 precision
- No CPU offloading
- Flash Attention 2 enabled

On TPU: DeepSpeed is not used and FlashAttention is not available; the script falls back to standard attention and XLA.

## File Structure

```
CPT/
├── config.yaml                  # Main configuration
├── train_direct.py              # Training script (Transformers + TRL + PEFT)
├── train_direct.sh              # Training launcher with monitoring
├── prepare_dataset.py           # Dataset preparation from Hyperswitch
├── inference.py                 # Model comparison tool
├── requirements.txt             # Python dependencies
├── deepspeed_configs/           # DeepSpeed configurations
│   └── zero2.json
├── dataset/                     # Training data (generated, ~36MB)
│   ├── all_data.jsonl          # 16,731 combined samples
│   └── dataset_stats.json      # Statistics
├── hyperswitch/                 # Cloned repo (not pushed to git)
└── outputs/                     # Training outputs (not pushed to git)
    └── hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/
        ├── logs/               # TensorBoard logs
        ├── checkpoint-*/       # Saved checkpoints
        └── final_model/        # Final trained model
```

## What Gets Pushed to GitHub

**Essential files (~144KB total):**
- ✅ `config.yaml`, `requirements.txt`
- ✅ `prepare_dataset.py`, `train_direct.py`, `train_direct.sh`
- ✅ `inference.py`
- ✅ `deepspeed_configs/`
- ✅ `README.md`

**NOT pushed (auto-generated or too large):**
- ❌ `.venv/` (8.4GB) - Recreate with pip
- ❌ `outputs/` (17GB) - Training results
- ❌ `.cache/` (71GB) - HuggingFace cache
- ❌ `hyperswitch/` (325MB) - Clone separately
- ❌ `dataset/` (36MB) - Regenerate with script
- ❌ `__pycache__/`, `*.log` - Runtime artifacts

## Training Details

### Dataset Composition (16,731 total samples)
- **File-level**: 2,120 samples (complete files or chunks)
- **Granular**: 14,611 samples
  - Functions: 4,121 (public function signatures)
  - Structs: 5,710 (public struct definitions)
  - Traits: 223 (trait definitions)
  - Impls: 4,296 (implementation blocks)
  - Modules: 261 (module structure)

### Memory Usage (per GPU)
- Model: ~62GB (32B params in BF16)
- LoRA adapters: ~1.2GB (r=64)
- Optimizer: ~31GB (ZeRO-2 split)
- Activations: ~24GB (with gradient checkpointing)
- **Total: ~78GB / 141GB available per H200**

### Expected Training Time
- Total steps: 2,355 (5 epochs)
- ~5-6 seconds per step
- **Total: ~3.5-4 hours** on 2x H200

### Training Results (Example Run)
- **Initial loss**: 1.63 → **Final loss**: 0.48 (71% reduction)
- **Initial perplexity**: 5.12 → **Final perplexity**: 1.59
- **Token accuracy**: 61% → 89%
- **Eval loss**: 0.46 (no overfitting)

### Checkpoints
- Saved every 50 steps
- ~1.2GB per checkpoint (LoRA adapters only)
- Format: SafeTensors
- Final model includes training metadata

## What is CPT?

**Continued Pre-Training (CPT)** adapts a pre-trained model to a specific code domain by continuing the causal language modeling (next-token prediction) on domain-specific code.

### How It Works
The model learns by predicting the next token given previous tokens:
```rust
pub fn create_payment(        ← Model sees this
    request: PaymentRequest   ← Predicts this
) -> Result<Payment, Error> { ← Then this
```

### What The Model Learns
Through next-token prediction, the model learns:
1. **Syntax & Grammar** - Rust language rules
2. **Code Patterns** - `.await?`, error handling chains
3. **API Knowledge** - Function signatures, parameter types
4. **Naming Conventions** - Variable/function naming patterns
5. **Architecture** - Module structure, imports
6. **Domain Logic** - Payment processing concepts
7. **Error Handling** - Hyperswitch error patterns
8. **Documentation** - Doc comment styles

### Why Use This Model?
We use **Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct** because:
- Excellent code understanding baseline
- Already optimized for code tasks
- Strong performance on code benchmarks
- Good balance of size vs capability

## Technology Stack

- **Transformers**: Model loading and tokenization
- **TRL (Transformer Reinforcement Learning)**: SFTTrainer with sample packing
- **PEFT**: LoRA implementation
- **DeepSpeed**: Multi-GPU training with ZeRO-2
- **Flash Attention 2**: Memory-efficient attention

## After Training

### Run Inference Comparison
```bash
python3 inference.py

# Compare base model vs fine-tuned on various prompts
# - Code explanations
# - Function completion
# - Module declarations
```

### Test the Fine-tuned Model
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer
from peft import PeftModel
import torch

# Load base model
base_model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct",
    dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device_map="auto"
)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct")

# Load LoRA adapter
model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(
    base_model, 
    "outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/final_model"
)

# Generate code
prompt = "// Hyperswitch payment processing\npub fn validate_payment_method"
inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=200, temperature=0.2)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0]))
```

### Merge Adapter (Optional)
```python
from peft import PeftModel

# Load and merge
model = PeftModel.from_pretrained(
    base_model, 
    "outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_*/final_model"
)
merged_model = model.merge_and_unload()

# Save merged model
merged_model.save_pretrained("hyperswitch-qwen-32b-merged")
tokenizer.save_pretrained("hyperswitch-qwen-32b-merged")
```

## Evaluation Results

### Strengths (Fine-tuned Model)
✅ **Code Explanation** - Excellent at explaining Hyperswitch code
✅ **Domain Knowledge** - Understands payment processing concepts
✅ **Architecture** - Knows module structure and organization
✅ **Faster** - More concise responses than base model
✅ **Context Aware** - Recognizes Hyperswitch patterns

### Recommended Use Cases
- ✅ Code reviews and explanations
- ✅ Documentation generation
- ✅ Understanding existing code
- ✅ Architectural discussions
- ✅ Onboarding new developers

### Optimal Settings
- **Temperature**: 0.2-0.3 for code tasks
- **Temperature**: 0.5-0.7 for explanations
- **Max tokens**: 512-1024 for most tasks

## Troubleshooting

### CUDA Out of Memory
**Error**: `torch.cuda.OutOfMemoryError`

**Solutions**:
1. Reduce batch size in script:
   ```python
   per_device_train_batch_size=1
   gradient_accumulation_steps=4
   ```
2. Enable gradient checkpointing (already enabled)
3. Use smaller LoRA rank (r=32 or r=16)
4. Reduce max sequence length

### Checkpoints Not Found
**Error**: Cannot find checkpoint directory

**Solutions**:
1. Check `outputs/` directory exists:
   ```bash
   ls -lh outputs/
   ```
2. Verify training completed:
   ```bash
   tail logs/train_*.log
   ```
3. Confirm checkpoint naming pattern:
   ```bash
   find outputs/ -name "checkpoint-*"
   ```

### TensorBoard Not Showing Metrics
**Error**: Empty dashboard or no data

**Solutions**:
1. Check correct log directory:
   ```bash
   tensorboard --logdir=outputs/hyperswitch-qwen2.5-coder-32b-instruct-lora_* --port 6008
   ```
2. Verify training is writing logs:
   ```bash
   ls -lh outputs/*/runs/
   ```
3. Restart TensorBoard after training starts

### Model Loading Errors
**Error**: Cannot load LoRA weights or base model

**Solutions**:
1. Verify HuggingFace token:
   ```bash
   huggingface-cli whoami
   ```
2. Check adapter config exists:
   ```bash
   cat outputs/*/final_model/adapter_config.json
   ```
3. Use correct model path (Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct)
4. Ensure proper dtype: `torch.bfloat16`

### Slow Inference
**Issue**: Generation takes too long

**Solutions**:
1. Use Flash Attention 2 (already enabled)
2. Reduce max_new_tokens
3. Use merged model instead of adapter
4. Enable 8-bit quantization for inference:
   ```python
   model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
       "Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct",
       load_in_8bit=True,
       device_map="auto"
   )
   ```

### Dataset Errors
**Error**: Cannot find `all_data.jsonl`

**Solutions**:
1. Run prepare_dataset.py:
   ```bash
   python3 prepare_dataset.py
   ```
2. Check data/ directory:
   ```bash
   ls -lh data/
   ```
3. Verify dataset format (each line is JSON)

### Multi-GPU Issues
**Error**: Model not distributed properly

**Solutions**:
1. Check GPU availability:
   ```bash
   nvidia-smi
   ```
2. Verify CUDA visible devices:
   ```bash
   echo $CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES
   ```
3. Use device_map="auto" in model loading
4. Check DDP settings if using distributed training

---

## Additional Resources

- **Qwen2.5-Coder**: [HuggingFace Model Card](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct)
- **LoRA Paper**: [Low-Rank Adaptation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685)
- **TRL Documentation**: [Transformer Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/)
- **Hyperswitch**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch)

---

*Last Updated: October 2024*

## References

- [Transformers Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers)
- [TRL Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl)
- [PEFT Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft)
- [DeepSpeed Documentation](https://www.deepspeed.ai/)
